What is passkey authentication?
----------------------------------------------------------------

When a user registers on a passkey-enabled website, a unique passkey is generated and stored on their device. From that point forward, every login attempt to the website can be authenticated seamlessly using either a biometric sensor, such as facial recognition or a fingerprint scan, or by scanning a QR code.

Passkeys are cross-platform and cross-device, which means that you can use the same passkey to log in to a website or app from any device. For example, if you create a passkey for a website on your Mac, you can use the same passkey to log in on the website from your iPhone or iPad.

Passkey authentication vs. passwords
----------------------------------------------------------------
Passkeys and passwords are two fundamentally different methods of authentication. Let us explore their key differences:

1. The onus of creating and remembering
Passwords are created by the user, making the user responsible for remembering them. This can be difficult, especially if the user must remember multiple passwords for different apps. Based on company policies, passwords need to be updated regularly. Conversely, passkeys never need to be updated. Passkeys are generated by the service provider and remembered by the user’s device, shifting the burden away from the user.

2. Security
While passwords are inherently insecure, passkeys are secure and phishing-resistant by design. Users often choose weak passwords or reuse them across different accounts (both corporate and personal), making them susceptible to compromise. Additionally, passwords can be intercepted, guessed or stolen through data breaches.

Passkey authentication uses encryption and device-bound storage to enhance security. Moreover, private keys are never shared with the application a user is logged into. By eliminating the need for users to remember passkeys, the risk of password reuse or misplacement is effectively eliminated.

3. User experience
Managing multiple passwords can be burdensome for users. Frequent password changes and complex requirements can be frustrating, and this may cause users to adopt unsafe practices, such as writing passwords down or storing them in insecure locations.

Passkey authentication is a more seamless, user-friendly 
and sustainable way to access applications. Users can log in to an application by scanning a biometric or entering a device PIN, regardless of the device they are using.

Explanations
-------------------------------
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_zyKvPvh808
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=o_g-M7UBqI8
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EnY6fSng3Ew
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GI790E1JMgw
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GI790E1JMgw